src/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Bleeding Retro Wiki
description: Community-sourced knowledge on retro console mods, repairs, and upgrades.
template: splash
hero:
  tagline: Community-sourced knowledge on retro console mods, repairs, and upgrades.
  actions:
    - text: Browse Consoles
      link: /consoles/gba
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary
    - text: Browse Topics
      link: /topics/hdmi
      icon: right-arrow
---

## About This Wiki

This wiki is a synthesis of knowledge shared in the [Bleeding Retro Discord community](https://discord.gg/bleedingretro) over several years.

**What you'll find here:**
- Possible mods and upgrades for retro consoles
- Common repairs and known failure points
- Community context on tools, products, and techniques

**What this wiki is not:**
- A ranking of "best" mods — we list options, not verdicts
- A replacement for hands-on research — always read up before you solder

> Options are listed without ranking. What works best depends on your hardware revision, budget, and skill level.

Commit message:

Rename to DMC Wiki (Dubesinhower Modding Community)

src/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: DMC Wiki
description: The Dubesinhower Modding Community Wiki — community-sourced knowledge on retro console mods, repairs, and upgrades.
template: splash
hero:
  tagline: The Dubesinhower Modding Community Wiki. Community-sourced knowledge on retro console mods, repairs, and upgrades.
  actions:
    - text: Browse Consoles
      link: /consoles/gba
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary
    - text: Browse Topics
      link: /topics/hdmi
      icon: right-arrow
---

## About This Wiki

This wiki is a synthesis of knowledge shared in the [Dubesinhower Modding Community Discord](https://discord.gg/bleedingretro) over several years.

**What you'll find here:**
- Possible mods and upgrades for retro consoles
- Common repairs and known failure points
- Community context on tools, products, and techniques

**What this wiki is not:**
- A ranking of "best" mods — we list options, not verdicts
- A replacement for hands-on research — always read up before you solder

> Options are listed without ranking. What works best depends on your hardware revision, budget, and skill level.
